<a name="dextersinister01"></a>

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/65248695" width="900" height="506" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
###### — *Letter & Spirit* by Dexter Sinister

The font Meta-the-Difference-Between-the-Two-Font-4-D intends to bridge historical precedents with parametric design. Sinister asks “How to keep things moving? ... what if we make one of those parameters *time* itself?”

I had the quote “I follow the spirit of the law not the letter” saved before watching this video but did not know that it comes from judicial practices and precedents. I was considering trying to define letters in terms of language in order to abstract letters using letters... but after trying to think about how to define each letter, it was basically impossible since the image, perception, and understanding of a letter also depends on its context. An E can be described as 3 horizontal lines parallel to each other and connected by a vertical line. But without the vertical line, the E could still be read as an E. Additionally, the definition doesn't describe how far apart the 3 horizontal lines are. Letters are weird! Though they are pure shape, they can't be mathematically defined like a circle or square. It's quite simple: an E is an E if it looks and reads like an E. Though letters are visual, they are at the core immaterial and completely abstract.

I have also been reading about Ludwig Wittgenstein, a philosopher who focused on language's limits and function. A frequently cited quote of his is “What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence.” Since letters are the basic unit to written language, it's quite difficult to break them down any farther. They are not merely line compositions. So I have just come to accept a letter for a letter and to keep moving on. It is what it is. What I have come to observe is the changing meaning of “movable type.” For Latin characters, it began with Gutenberg, moved into wood type, hot-metal typesetting, phototypesetting, typewriters, (what else?), and now digital typesetting. Movable type now can involve fluid time and movement, live transformations. Can type ever become unstuck from rectangles?

After hearing about Metafont again, I decided to actually look into what it is and what it makes. It doesn't aesthetically work too well but it's undeniably impressive: “[The Concept of a Meta-Font](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/visiblelanguage/pdf/16.1/the-concept-of-a-meta-font.pdf){:target="_blank"}” by Donald Knuth. I though about making a parametric typeface, which I kind of did for the CSS typeface project, but after seeing Metafont and [Spectral](https://spectral.prototypo.io/){:target="_blank"}, I'm not actually into it that much, weirdly. It's not really type design, and too many broad parameters means the typeface loses its identity.
